Welcome boys and girls, to a sample pipeline job demo.
So in the last lecture we understood how to run a freestyle project, so we copied over our git repository
and displayed the content of one file.
So in this lecture we are going to do the same, but with a pipeline project.
So I'm going to name this job sample pipeline job to and select pipeline, then click.
Okay, so I'm going to scroll down.
So for Pipeline Job, everything is controlled through the script.
So let's click Hello World by default.
It just gave us one stage which is stage hello.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to replace this with copy git report and this is a cool thing.
So here I need to write some code to copy over the GitHub repository.
So Jenkins gives this pipeline syntax which can be used to generate the code.
So let's click this pipeline syntax and from the sample step dropdown, I'm going to select Git and
then I'm going to give the repository URL.
So this is going to be the same repository as before.
Branch is master no credential needed because it's a public repository.
All right.
And then I'm going to click Generate Pipeline Script and then I'm going to copy this, go back to our
job and simply put it here.
Now, if I want, I can display the content in the next step, or I could create a different stage.
So let's create a different stage just for fun.
So I'm just going to copy this block and then paste it here.
I'm going to name the stage as a display.
Read me.
So again, I'm going to click pipeline syntax and then I'm going to select our shell script.
So Kurt, read me that MD Pipeline script.
Simply copy this.
Go back to the job.
Best tear.
Also, if you noticed under this pipeline script, you have way more options than what was available
under build for free style projects.
So that's another thing that's a little bit different.
Go back to the job, click save.
And then let's click build now.
All right.
So our pipeline job has run.
You have two options to check out the logs.
If you want to check out the logs for the specific stage so you can just bring your mouse over here
and then you can click logs and it is going to show the logs.
So this tab basically copied over the git repository and the next step the same way if you click roll,
log it, just showing the content of the file or the way I do it is I just go here, click this small
arrow icon and then click console output and then it shows your familiar console output in one place.
And this is how you create a pipeline job.
All right, folks, that's it for this one.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture.